# Ford GoBike System Data slide_deck_template
This project is divided into two major parts. In the first part, you will conduct an exploratory data analysis on a dataset of your choosing. You will use Python data science and data visualization libraries to explore the dataset’s variables and understand the data’s structure, oddities, patterns and relationships. The analysis in this part should be structured, going from simple univariate relationships up through multivariate relationships, but it does not need to be clean or perfect. There is no one single answer that needs to come out of a given dataset. This part of the project is your opportunity to ask questions of the data and make your own discoveries. It’s important to keep in mind that sometimes exploration can lead to dead ends, and that it can take multiple steps to dig down to what you’re truly looking for. Be patient with your steps, document your work carefully, and be thorough in the perspective that you choose to take with your dataset.

In the second part, you will take your main findings from your exploration and convey them to others through an explanatory analysis. To this end, you will create a slide deck that leverages polished, explanatory visualizations to communicate your results. This part of the project should make heavy use of the first part of the project. Select one or two major paths in your exploration, choose relevant visualizations along that path, and then polish them to construct a story for your readers to understand what you found.
## Dataset

> The data consists of information regarding 3.27 billion bike hiring, including
age, timeframe, gender, station, and others. The dataset can be found in Ford GoBike website. Dataset: (https://s3.amazonaws.com/fordgobike-data/index.html). The data consisted of 16 different variables such as age, gender, weekday, time and others. It contains 3.27 billion rides. Ages in dataset from 18 to 56 takes 95% of the users in dataset. There were users more than 100 years old. So, we can remove users more than 60 years old as a cleaning and tidy up. We also generated new fields such as age group in order to make grouping and analyze the date by using groups. Ford GoBike extended the service to San Francisco, Oakland and San Jose. However, regarding complexity of traffic, we decided to focus on the San Fancisco area.


## Summary of Findings

> There were 3.27 billion rides and 20 to 40 years old people took the more than 70% of bike rides. Among those, 30 to 40 years old people's rides account almost 40% of all bike rides. Males demonstrate 76% of all bike rides, in turn females are viewes with taken 22% of them. The data illustrates users use the service on weekdays moreso than on weekends. Data shows 8am and 5pm as the peak hours for this service. Illustrating the majority of users utilize during the commuting hours, in addition, during lunch hours. As well, subscribers rides as most significant decreasing toward the winter session than customers. Subscribers' average trip duration around 11 minutes. Conversely, customers' average trip duration of 28 minutes. 80% of the rides are from subscribers and it illustrating use of service during commute hours. Subscribers and customers trip distance were comparable, which is moderately more than one mile. Subscribers' most frequently used timing is around 7 ~ 9am and 4 ~ 6pm, which is a commute time. In the contrary, Customers' most frequently used timing are weekend 12pm ~ 4pm and weekday 5pm ~ 6pm. Customers tend to use this service during weekend for leisure and after work. 40 to 50 year old users tend to use the service signifantly above other users.


## Key Insights for Presentation

> For the presentation, we focused on the impact of age, timeframe, weekday, age group of bike hiring data. We started by introducing the age distrubition, monthly bike hiring trend, followed by age group distribution, then plot the weekday, timeframe with age data.  We implemented different color palettes for each variables for clarity.
